








Discussions














Discussions






Weight: 
6% (best 6 of 8)
Submission: 
via the
 Discussion 
tool
Due: 
Weeks 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 12; initial posting by 11:59 PM ET on Thursday, responses by 11:59 PM ET on Sunday 
Note:
 Refer to the 
Outline
 for the exact due dates


Overview


Course discussions offer an opportunity for you to share your personal knowledge, experiences, practices and beliefs with your classmates. It is important that you discuss and share your thoughts with your classmates, to allow for shared learning from one another's experiences, knowledge, and expertise. 


Purpose


The purpose of the discussion activities in this course is for you to read case studies related to the course content and then reflect, discuss, and share your thoughts with your classmates in smaller online groups. 


The goals of this activity are to help to: 




 Share professional practices and experiences with your peers. 


 Uncover hidden biases in your responses to the case scenarios.




Instructions


You will see a Discussions section in each of the following units: 




 Unit 01  


 Unit 02 


 Unit 04 


 Unit 05 


 Unit 06 


 Unit 07 


 Unit 09 


 Unit 12 






Do the required readings for each discussion activity and think about the questions at the end. Your writings should demonstrate a clear understanding of the article and related content discussed in the unit or textbook. Include a direct response to the question and feature a coherent writing style. The discussion assignments are designed to capture your thoughts and the group's conversation so additional research is not required. 


Submission 


You are required to submit your initial posting no later than 
Thursday at 11: 59 pm ET
 and your responses to your colleagues’ postings should be submitted no later than 
Sunday at 11:59 pm ET
 in the week of the assignment. 


Proper grammar and spelling must be used (no slang, short forms, or symbols). 


Posts must clearly relate to the content being explored, they should provoke thought in others and help add to the discussion. Irrelevant posts or socializing will not be graded. 


All timelines must be followed. If you miss or do not add to a discussion, you will not receive a grade and you will not be able to make this up at a later date. In general, you need to post your original posting and responses in the week in which the particular discussion runs (Follow the Schedule in the Course Outline for specific dates). 


Student Responsibilities 




 To organize time to ensure completion of each activity within the deadlines provided in the Outline. 


 To participate as an equal member in the discussion group. 


 To answer and expand on any questions posted / pose new questions. 


 To actively respond the posts of your group members. 






General Posting Timelines 


Original postings (your first individual / unique contribution) to the discussion board must be posted by Thursday of the week to allow group members time to respond and comment. It is each member's responsibility to check the discussion board regularly for posts made by group members. Discussions will commence on Mondays and conclude on Sundays. Please keep to this timeframe so we can move on to new ideas. 


See the Schedule in the 
Course Outline
 for due dates. 


Guidelines for Effective Online Discussion 


Building trust, and a rapport, with your fellow group members is key to working effectively online. Here are some points we would like you to consider when communicating online: 




 Text has permanence. What you say online is difficult to retract later. Be judicious: think twice, click once. 


 Ask for clarification before making judgments. Review your tone before you publish your posting. 


 Use your group members' names when communicating. 


 Address the group member's ideas or statements, not them as a person, when responding to a post.


 No 
YELLING
. Using bold upper-case letters is poor form, as if you are stomping around and yelling at somebody. 


 Criticism must be constructive and well-articulated. Be succinct. Long rants directed at any other contributor are simply unacceptable and will not be tolerated. The same goes for profanity. The academic environment expects higher-order language. 


 Avoid jokes and sarcasm, which often don't translate well to the online environment. 


 Respect privacy and original ideas. If you are responding to a specific point made by someone else, be sure to quote the originator of the material. Ask before forwarding items created by someone else. 


 Post as early as possible to get the discussion going and help the conversation flow. At the same time, do not be offended if your classmates do not post back right away. 


 Use a consistent writing style. Write as if you were writing a term paper. Correct spelling, grammatical construction, and sentence structure are expected in every other academic writing activity. 






Important Note: 




 If you notice disrespectful or hostile behavior in the Discussions area, let your instructor know about the problem right away so that they can follow up and address the issue. 






Grading Expectations 


Each of the eight Discussions will be graded out of 12 points using the following rubric. The two lowest grades will be dropped.





    Discussion Grading Rubric 
  






Criteria


Excellent

        4 points


Adequate

        3 points


Minimal

	    2 points


Below Expectations

	    0-1 point










Frequency of Participation 


Participated at least as required with additional posts.


Participated as required for the discussion. 


Posted late for the discussion. 


Did not participate in the discussion. 






Original Postings 


The original post delivers information that is full of thought, insight, and analysis. Makes connections to previous or current content or to real-life situations. Contains rich and fully developed new ideas, connections, or applications. 


The original post delivers information that shows that thought, insight, and analysis have taken place. Makes connections to previous content or to real-life situations; but the connections are not clear or are too obvious. Contains new ideas but may lack depth and/or detail. 


The original post is generally competent, but the actual information it delivers seems commonplace and vague. Contains few, if any, new ideas or a summary of other comments. 


The original post is rudimentary and superficial; there is no evidence of insight or analysis. 






Replies 


The response attempts to motivate the discussion; presents creative approaches to the topic. 


The response attempts to direct the discussion and to present relevant viewpoints for consideration by group. 


The response is limited and/or may be off topic. 


Did not reply to others.