Weight: 3% (0.5% per post.  6 posts/interactions needed total over a minimum of 4 weeks) 
Submission: via the Discussion tool
Due: Posts and interactions spectific to the Week activity or practice question must be posted by 11:30PM ET
Note: Refer to the Outline and in-lesson Discussion notes for additional details.

Overview
Course discussions offer an opportunity for you to share your personal knowledge, experiences, practices and beliefs with your classmates. It is important that you discuss and share your thoughts with your classmates, to allow for shared learning from one another's experiences, knowledge, and expertise. 

Purpose and Instructions
The purpose of the discussion activities in this course is for you to read case studies related to the course content and then reflect, discuss, and share your thoughts with your classmates in smaller online groups. It is meant to be an easy 3% and graded for completion only.  Simply post by the end of the week for any given unit, and/or interact with another member of your class.  Post/interact at least 6 times over 4 weeks for the grade.

The goals of this activity are to help to: 

Share professional practices and experiences with your peers. 
Uncover hidden biases in your responses to the case scenarios or activities.
Keep up with and apply the material in interesting ways.
Submission 
Posts and interactions spectific to the Week activity or practice question must be posted by 11:30PM ET.  Try to submit before this time so there is space for timely interaction with your peers.  You can also post in a general thread and support one another in Excel assignments, sharing interesting articles/discussions, etc. that are not specific to a particular week's content or activity.  

While posts are graded for completion only, they must be readable and add value to get the grade. Proper grammar and spelling must be used (no slang, short forms, or symbols). Bullet points are fine! Posts must clearly relate to the content being explored, they should provoke thought in others and help add to the discussion. Irrelevant posts or socializing will not be counted as complete. Remember, the six posts/interactions must be spread over 4 weeks.

Guidelines for Effective Online Discussion 
Building trust, and a rapport, with your fellow group members is key to working effectively online. Here are some points we would like you to consider when communicating online: 

Text has permanence. What you say online is difficult to retract later. Be judicious: think twice, click once. 
Ask for clarification before making judgments. Review your tone before you publish your posting. 
Use your group members' names when communicating. 
Address the group member's ideas or statements, not them as a person, when responding to a post.
No YELLING. Using bold upper-case letters is poor form, as if you are stomping around and yelling at somebody. 
Criticism must be constructive and well-articulated. Be succinct. Long rants directed at any other contributor are simply unacceptable and will not be tolerated. The same goes for profanity. The academic environment expects higher-order language. 
Avoid jokes and sarcasm, which often don't translate well to the online environment. 
Respect privacy and original ideas. If you are responding to a specific point made by someone else, be sure to quote the originator of the material. Ask before forwarding items created by someone else. 
Post as early as possible to get the discussion going and help the conversation flow. At the same time, do not be offended if your classmates do not post back right away. 
Use a consistent writing style. Write as if you were writing a term paper. Correct spelling, grammatical construction, and sentence structure are expected in every other academic writing activity. 
Important Note: 

If you notice disrespectful or hostile behavior in the Discussions area, let your instructor know about the problem right away so that they can follow up and address the issue. 
Grading Expectations 
Each of the eight Discussions will be graded out of 12 points using the following rubric. The two lowest grades will be dropped.

Discussion Grading Rubric
Criteria	Excellent
3 points	Adequate
2 points	Minimal
1 points	Below Expectations
0 point
Frequency of Participation	Participated at least as required with additional posts.	Participated as required for the discussion.	Posted late for the discussion.	Did not participate in the discussion.
Original Postings	The original post delivers information that is full of thought, insight, and analysis. Makes connections to previous or current content or to real-life situations. Contains rich and fully developed new ideas, connections, or applications.	The original post delivers information that shows that thought, insight, and analysis have taken place. Makes connections to previous content or to real-life situations; but the connections are not clear or are too obvious. Contains new ideas but may lack depth and/or detail.	The original post is generally competent, but the actual information it delivers seems commonplace and vague. Contains few, if any, new ideas or a summary of other comments.	The original post is rudimentary and superficial; there is no evidence of insight or analysis.
Replies	The response attempts to motivate the discussion; presents creative approaches to the topic.	The response attempts to direct the discussion and to present relevant viewpoints for consideration by group.	The response is limited and/or may be off topic.	Did not reply to others.